# Features

# NPM Dependency Resolving and Pre-Bundling

1. [Pre-bundle]() them to improve page loading speed and convert CommonJS / UMD modules to ESM. The pre-bundling is performed with [esbuild]() and makes Vite's cold start time significantly faster than any JavaScript-based bundler.

2. Rewrite the imports to valid URLs like `/node_modules/.vite/deps/my-dep.js?v=f3sf2ebd` so that the browser can import them properly.

### Dependencies are Strongly Cached

Vite caches dependency requests via HTTP headers.

## Hot Module Replacement

When you create an app via create-vite, the selected templates would have these pre-configured for you already.

## TypeScript

### Transpile Only

Vite only performs transpilation on `.ts` files and does NOT perform type checking.

## TranScript Compiler Options

Some configuration fields under `compilerOptions` in `tsconfig.json` require special attention.

`isolatedModules`: Should be set to `true`.

However, some libraries (e.g. vue) don't work well with `"isolatedModules": true`. You can use `"skipLibCheck": true` to temporarily suppress the errors until it is fixed upstream.

`useDefineForClassFields`

`target`

## Client Types

Vite's default types are for its Node.js API. To shim the enviroment of client side code in a Vite application, add a `d.ts` declaration file:

```html
/// <reference types="vite/client" />
```

Alternatively, you can add `vite/client` to `compilerOptions.types` inside `tsconfig.json`:

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "types": ["vite/client"]
  }
}
```

This will provide the following type shims:
* Asset imports (e.g. importing an `.svg` file)
* Types for the Vite-injected [env variables]() on `import.meta.env`
* Types for the [HMR API]() on `import.meta.hot`

# CSS

Importing `.css` files will inject its content to the page via a `<style>` tag with HMR support.

*`@import` Inlining and Rebasing*

Vite is pre-configured to support CSS `@import` inlining via `postcss-import`.

Vite aliases are also respected for CSS `@import`. 

All CSS `url()` references, even if the imported files are in different directories, are always automatically rebased to ensure correctness.

`@import` aliases and URL rebasing are also supported for Sass and Less files.

## Disabling CSS injection into the page

The automatic injection of CSS contents can be turned off via `?inline` query parameter.

```js
import './foo.css' // will be injected into the page
import otherStyles from './bar.css?inline' // will not be injected
```

## Static Assets

Importing a static asset will return the resolved public URL when it is served:

```js
import imgUrl from './img.png'
document.getElementById('hero-img').src = imgUrl
```

Special queries can modify how assets are loaded:

```js
// Explicitly load assets as URL
import assetAsURL from './asset.js?url'
```

## JSON

JSON files can be directly imported - named imports are also supported:

```js
// import the entire object
import json from './example.json'
// import a root field as named exports - helps with tree-shaking!
import { field } from './example.json'
```

## Glob Import

Vite supports importing multiple modules from the file system via the special `import.meta.glob` function:

```js
const modules = import.meta.glob('./dir/*.js')
```

The above will be transformed inot the following:

```js
// code produced by vite
const modules = {
  './dir/foo.js': () => import('./dir/foo.js'),
  './dir/bar.js': () => import('./dir/bar.js')
}
```

You can then iterate over the keys of the `modules` object to access the corresponding modules:

```js
for (const path in modules) {
  modules[path]().then((mod) => {
    console.log(path, mod)
  })
}
```

Matched files are by default lazy-loaded via dynamic import and will be split into separate chunks during build. If you'd rather import all the modules directly (e.g. relying on side-effects in these modules to be applied first)

## Multiple Patterns

The first argument can be an array of globs.

```js
const modules = import.meta.glob(['./dir/*.js', './another/*.js'])
```

## Negative Patterns

Negative glob patterns are also supported (prefixed with `!`).

```js
const modules = import.meta.glob(['./dir/*.js', '!**/bar.js'])
```

## Dynamic Import

Vite also supports dynamic import with variables.

```js
const module = await import(`./dir/${file}.js`)
```
Note that variables only represent file names one level deep. If `file` is `'foo/bar'`, the import would fail.

## WebAssembly

Pre-compiled `.wasm` files can be imported with `?init`. The default export will be an initialization function that returns a Promise of the `WebAssembly.Instance`:

```js
import initi from './example.wasm?initi'

ini().then((instance) => {
  instance.exports.test()
})
```

## Build Optimizations

```
Features listed below are automatically applied as part of the build process and there is no need for explicit configuration unless you want to disable them.
```

## CSS Code Splitting

